“The saddest aspect of life right now is that science gathers knowledge faster than society gathers wisdom.” – Isaac Asimov’s Book of Science and Nature Quotations


“Anti-intellectualism has been a constant thread winding its way through our political and cultural life, nurtured by the false notion that democracy means that ‘my ignorance is just as good as your knowledge.’”

“There are no happy endings in history, only crisis points that pass.” – The Gods Themselves

“Every period of human development has had its own particular type of human conflict—its own variety of problem that, apparently, could be settled only by force. And each time, frustratingly enough, force never really settled the problem. Instead, it persisted through a series of conflicts, then vanished of itself—what’s the expression—ah, yes, ‘not with a bang, but a whimper,’ as the economic and social environment changed. And then, new problems, and a new series of wars.” – I, Robot

“The most hopelessly stupid man is he who is not aware he is wise.” – Second Foundation

“And above all things, never think that you’re not good enough yourself. A man should never think that. My belief is that in life people will take you at your own reckoning.”

“Society is much more easily soothed than one’s own conscience.” – Foundation and Empire

“Any fool can tell a crisis when it arrives. The real service to the state is to detect it in embryo.” – Foundation


“Where any answer is possible, all answers are meaningless.” – The Road to Infinity

Robert Heinlein’s best quotes
Robert A. Heinlein, an aeronautical engineer by profession, was the pioneer of hard SF and the first person to be named the Science Fiction Writers Grand Master. The Stranger in a Strange Land author, often called “the dean of science-fiction”, is credited for elevating the genre’s literary quality. We bring you some of Robert Heinlein’s quotes that are sharp as the man himself.

Robert Heinlein Quote


“Love is that condition in which the happiness of another person is essential to your own.” – Stranger in a Strange Land

“Never underestimate the power of human stupidity.” – Time Enough for Love

“Women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get used to the idea.”


 – Time Enough for Love


“I will accept the rules that you feel necessary to your freedom. I am free, no matter what rules surround me. If I find them tolerable, I tolerate them; if I find them too obnoxious, I break them. I am free because I know that I alone am morally responsible for everything I do.” – The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress

“Don’t handicap your children by making their lives easy.” – Time Enough for Love

Robert Heinlein

“A generation which ignores history has no past — and no future.” – Time Enough for Love



“There is no such thing as luck; there is only adequate or inadequate preparation to cope with a statistical universe.” – Have Space Suit – Will Travel

“The slickest way in the world to lie is to tell the right amount of truth at the right time-and then shut up.” – Stranger in a Strange Land

“Take sides! Always take sides! You will sometimes be wrong — but the man who refuses to take sides must always be wrong.” – Double Stars

“There are no dangerous weapons; there are only dangerous men.” – Starship Troopers

“A desire not to butt into other people’s business is at least eighty percent of all human wisdom.” – Stranger in a Strange Land

“Live and learn, or you don’t live long.” – Time Enough for Love

“There is no safety this side of the grave.” – Stranger in a Strange Land

“Remember though, your best weapon is between your ears and under your scalp -provided it’s loaded.”

Arthur C. Clarke’s best quotes
Sir Arthur C. Clarke, a British sci-fi superstar, is credited for popularizing space and science. He was also an inventor and a futurist who envisioned the idea of geosynchronous communication satellites that would be developed years later. His best known works are the screenplay for 2001: A Space Odyssey, which he co-wrote with Stanley Kubrick, and the novelisation of the film. Here are Arthur C. Clarke’s best quotes that show why he’s one of the SF’s greats!

Arthur C. Clarke



“In my life I have found two things of priceless worth – learning and loving. Nothing else – not fame, not power, not achievement for its own sake – can possibly have the same lasting value. For when your life is over, if you can say ‘I have learned’ and ‘I have loved,’ you will also be able to say ‘I have been happy.” – Rama II

“The more wonderful the means of communication, the more trivial, tawdry, or depressing its contents seemed to be.” – 2001: A Space Odyssey



“When beauty is universal, it loses its power to move the heart, and only its absence can produce any emotional effect.” – The City and the Stars

“Because each of us is the sum of all we have ever experienced. Only the very young have a clean slate.” – Rama II

Philip K. Dick’s best quotes
Philip K. Dick spent most of his three-decade long writing career in obscurity – it was only after his death that the cult of Philip K. Dick took off. A good number of movies and TV shows are adaptations of his work, including The Man in the High Castle, Blade Runner, Total Recall, Minority Report, A Scanner Darkly and The Adjustment Bureau. Here are Philip K. Dick’s best quotes that prove he was a literary force to be reckoned with!

Philip K. Dick 

“It is sometimes an appropriate response to reality to go insane.” – VALIS

“I’m not much but I’m all I have.” – Martian Time-Slip

“The basic tool for the manipulation of reality is the manipulation of words. If you can control the meaning of words, you can control the people who must use them.”

“Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn’t go away.” – I Hope I Shall Arrive Soon

“My schedule for today lists a six-hour self-accusatory depression.” – Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?

“The true measure of a man is not his intelligence or how high he rises in this freak establishment. No, the true measure of a man is this: how quickly can he respond to the needs of others and how much of himself he can give.”

“Everything in life is just for a while.” – A Scanner Darkly

“The problem with introspection is that it has no end.”

“You will be required to do wrong no matter where you go. It is the basic condition of life, to be required to violate your own identity. At some time, every creature which lives must do so. It is the ultimate shadow, the defeat of creation; this is the curse at work, the curse that feeds on all life. Everywhere in the universe.” – Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?

“If you think this Universe is bad, you should see some of the others.”

Philip K. Dick Quote

“When you are crazy you learn to keep quiet.” – VALIS

“Reality denied comes back to haunt.” – Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said

“No single thing abides; and all things are f―d up.” – The Transmigration of Timothy Archer

“This is a mournful discovery.
1)Those who agree with you are insane
2)Those who do not agree with you are in power.” – VALIS

“It really seems to me that in the midst of great tragedy, there is always the horrible possibility that something terribly funny will happen.”

“How undisturbed, the sleep of the foolish.” – Radio Free Albemuth

“A weird time in which we are alive. We can travel anywhere we want, even to other planets. And for what? To sit day after day, declining in morale and hope.” – The Man in the High Castle

“Fear can make you do more wrong than hate or jealousy… fear makes you always, always hold something back.” – VALIS

Frank Herbert’s best quotes
Frank Herbert, an activist and a famed writer, was the first SF author to emphasize the environmental issues. Herbert’s most famous work and the SF landmark, Dune, stands as the best-selling science fiction novel of all time. And no, Star Wars most definitely would not exist without it. To celebrate the life and work Frank Herbert, here are some of his most powerful quotes.

Frank Herbert

“Hope clouds observation.” – Dune

“I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain.” – Dune

“Education is no substitute for intelligence.”

“There is no real ending. It’s just the place where you stop the story.”

“There is no escape – we pay for the violence of our ancestors.” – Dune

“Seek freedom and become captive of your desires. Seek discipline and find your liberty.” – Chapterhouse: Dune

“Belief can be manipulated. Only knowledge is dangerous.”

“If wishes were fishes, we’d all cast nets.” – The Dune Storybook

“Do actions agree with words? There’s your measure of reliability. Never confine yourself to the words.” – Chapterhouse: Dune

Frank Herbert Quote

“Nature does not make mistakes. Right and wrong are human categories.”

“The beginning of knowledge is the discovery of something we do not understand.”

“Deep in the human unconscious is a pervasive need for a logical universe that makes sense. But the real universe is always one step beyond logic.” – Dune

“The gift of words is the gift of deception and illusion.” – Children of Dune

“The mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience.” – Dune

“Show me a completely smooth operation and I’ll show you someone who’s covering mistakes. Real boats rock.” – Chapterhouse: Dune

“Respect for truth comes close to being the basis for all morality.”- Dune

“Never attempt to reason with people who know they are right!” “Given the right lever, you can move a planet.” – Dune

H.G. Wells’ best quotes
H.G. Wells is widely regarded as the “father of science fiction” (alongside Jules Verne) whose many futuristic predictions came true. The intellectual and outspoken socialist often shared his social critiques and visions for a better society through his works, such as Time Machine, The War of the Worlds, The Invisible Man, and The Island of Doctor Moreau. Here are some of H. G. Wills’ best quotes as a celebration of the author’s sci fi legacy.

H.G. Wells

“We all have our time machines, don’t we. Those that take us back are memories… And those that carry us forward, are dreams.”

“Face this world. Learn its ways, watch it, be careful of too hasty guesses at its meaning. In the end you will find clues to it all.” – The Time Machine

“Sometimes, you have to step outside of the person you’ve been and remember the person you were meant to be. The person you want to be. The person you are.”

“What on earth would a man do with himself, if something did not stand in his way?”

“Our true nationality is mankind.”

“I must confess that I lost faith in the sanity of the world.” – The Island of Doctor Moreau

“There’s truths you have to grow into.” – Love and Mr. Lewisham

“Advertising is legalized lying.”

“Nature never appeals to intelligence until habit and instinct are useless. There is no intelligence where there is no need of change.” – The Time Machine

“It sounds plausible enough tonight, but wait until tomorrow. Wait for the common sense of the morning.” – The Time Machine

“It is possible to believe that all the past is but the beginning of a beginning, and that all that is and has been is but the twilight of the dawn. It is possible to believe that all the human mind has ever accomplished is but the dream before the awakening.”

H.G. Wells Quote

“Moral indignation is jealousy with a halo.” – The Wife of Sir Isaac Harman

“I hope, or I could not live.” – The Island of Doctor Moreau

“Very simple was my explanation, and plausible enough—as most wrong theories are!” – The Time Machine

“Civilization is in a race between education and catastrophe. Let us learn the truth and spread it as far and wide as our circumstances allow. For the truth is the greatest weapon we have.”

“No passion in the world is equal to the passion to alter someone else’s draft.”

“The crisis of today is the joke of tomorrow.”

“I grieved to think how brief the dream of the human intellect had been. It had committed suicide.” – The Time Machine

“Fact takes no heed of human hopes.” – The Sleeper Awakes

Ursula K. Le Guin’s best quotes
Ursula K. Le Guin, the iconic novelist, essayist and poet, is credited for bringing sci fi into the literary mainstream. Cultural anthropology and feminist ideas had a major influence on the The Left Hand of Darkness author. She tackled gender, race, religion and politics through her critically and commercially successful work which has been translated to over 40 languages. Here are some of Ursula K. Le Guin’s best quotes that capture her infinite wisdom.

Ursula K. Le Guin Quote

“You cannot buy the revolution. You cannot make the revolution. You can only be the revolution. It is in your spirit, or it is nowhere.” – The Dispossessed

“Love doesn’t just sit there, like a stone, it has to be made, like bread; remade all the time, made new.” – The Lathe of Heaven

“The only thing that makes life possible is permanent, intolerable uncertainty: not knowing what comes next.” – The Left Hand of Darkness

“What sane person could live in this world and not be crazy?”

“We read books to find out who we are. What other people, real or imaginary, do and think and feel… is an essential guide to our understanding of what we ourselves are and may become.”

“Nobody who says, ‘I told you so’ has ever been, or will ever be, a hero.”

“We’re each of us alone, to be sure. What can you do but hold your hand out in the dark?” – The Wind’s Twelve Quarters

“It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end.” – The Left Hand of Darkness

“It is very hard for evil to take hold of the unconsenting soul.” – A Wizard of Earthsea

“My imagination makes me human and makes me a fool; it gives me all the world and exiles me from it.”

Ursula K. Le Guin

“You can’t crush ideas by suppressing them. You can only crush them by ignoring them. By refusing to think, refusing to change.” – The Dispossessed

“It is our suffering that brings us together. It is not love. Love does not obey the mind, and turns to hate when forced. The bond that binds us is beyond choice. We are brothers. We are brothers in what we share. In pain, which each of us must suffer alone, in hunger, in poverty, in hope, we know our brotherhood. We know it, because we have had to learn it. We know that there is no help for us but from one another, that no hand will save us if we do not reach out our hand. And the hand that you reach out is empty, as mine is. You have nothing. You possess nothing. You own nothing. You are free. All you have is what you are, and what you give.” – The Dispossessed

“Belief is the wound that knowledge heals.” – The Telling

“Freedom is a heavy load, a great and strange burden for the spirit to undertake. It is not easy. It is not a gift given, but a choice made, and the choice may be a hard one. The road goes upward towards the light; but the laden traveler may never reach the end of it.” – The Tombs of Atuan

“What is an anarchist? One who, choosing, accepts the responsibility of choice.”

“To hear, one must be silent.” – A Wizard of Earthsea

“The more defensive a society, the more conformist.” – City of Illusions

Anne McCaffrey’s best quotes
Along with Ursula K. Le Guin and Octavia E. Butler, the Americn-Irish writer Anne McCaffrey was a trailblazer that changed science-fiction. She was one of the first SF writers to land on the New York Times bestseller list. The beloved Dragonriders of Pern author is also the first woman to win a Hugo and Nebula Awards. Here are Anne McCaffrey’s most brilliant quotes that’ll make you love her even more.

Anne McCaffrey

“Isn’t this planet big enough for differences?” – The Chronicles of Pern: First Fall

“There’s something wrong in not appreciating one’s own special abilities, my girl. Find your own limitations, yes, but don’t limit yourself with false modesty.” – Dragonsinger

“When bad fortune occurs, the unresourceful, unimaginative man looks about him to attach the blame to someone else; the resolute accepts misfortune and endeavors to survive, mature, and improve because of it.” – Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern

“Necessity breeds solution.” – Dragonsinger

“Maybes never are.” – Dragonsong

“Exchange information, learn to speak sensibly about any subject, learn to express your thoughts, accept new ones, examine them, analyze. Think objectively. Think toward the future.” – The White Dragon

“Don’t store guilt for future use.” – Damia

“There’s nothing wrong in doubting. It sometimes leads to greater faith.”

“Old family motto: “The best revenge is revenge.” – Acorna: The Unicorn Girl

“Man is wise to fear: it sharpens the sense of self-preservation.” – All the Weyrs of Pern

Anne McCaffrey Quote

“Make no judgments where you have no compassion.” – Dragonquest

“True portraits are never realistic.” – Dragonseye

“To everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under heaven.” – All the Weyrs of Pern

“To cry was to release all sorts of ugly little pressures and tensions. Like waking out of a long, dark dream to a sun-filled day.” – Nerilka’s Story

“Who wills, Can.
Who tries, Does.
Who loves, Lives.”
– Dragonflight

“Living was struggling to do something impossible – to succeed, or die, knowing you had tried!” – Dragonflight

“The blackest night must end in dawn, the light dispel the dreamer’s fear.”

“Some folk, too, believe what the loudest talker says. And some folk because it frightens them not to.” – Dragonflight

Larry Niven’s best quotes
Larry Niven is the multiple award winning author of the legendary Ringworld series, along with many other hard SF masterworks. Niven has also written scripts for different sci-fi TV shows, such as the original Land of the Lost and Star Trek: The Animated Series. Also, the pioneer of “SF without a net” was once named by Arthur C Clarke himself as his favourite author! As a celebration of his writing, here are some of Larry Niven’s memorable quotes.

Larry Niven

“The gods do not protect fools. Fools are protected by more capable fools.” – Ringworld

“Mother Nature doesn’t care if you’re having fun.”

“In a universe the size of ours almost anything that can happen, will.” – There Is a Tide

“That’s the thing about people who think they hate computers. What they really hate is lousy programmers.”

“There is a technical, literary term for those who mistake the opinions and beliefs of characters in a novel for those of the author. The term is ‘idiot’.”

“1a) Never throw sh*t at an armed man.
1b) Never stand next to someone who is throwing sh*t at an armed man.”
– N-Space

“In the world of words the imagination is one of the forces of nature.”

“Ethics change with technology.” – N-Space

“Nitwit ideas are for emergencies. You use them when you’ve got nothing else to try. If they work, they go in the Book. Otherwise you follow the Book, which is largely a collection of nitwit ideas that worked.” – The Mote in God’s Eye

Larry Niven

“Half of wisdom is learning what to unlearn.” – The Ringworld Throne

“To doubt everything or to believe everything are two equally convenient solutions; both dispense with the necessity of reflection.” – Lucifer’s Hammer

“For each human being there is an optimum ratio between change and stasis. Too little change, he grows bored. Too little stability, he panics and loses his ability to adapt.” – Flash Crowd

“Fear is the brother of hate.”

“The perversity of the Universe tends towards a maximum.” – Ringworld

“In intelligence work we have to go by capabilities, not by intentions. If a potential enemy can do something to you, you have to prepare for it, without regard to what you think he wants to do.” – The Mote in God’s Eye

“Hopeless causes are the only ones worth fighting for. The fight for the taxpayer is the most hopeless of them all.” – Lucifer’s Hammer

“Part of being a coward is wanting security.” – A Relic of the Empire

“A civilization has the ethics it can afford.” – Lucifer’s Hammer

Frederik Pohl’s best quotes
Frederik Pohl’s remarkable career spanned nearly 75 years. The Space Merchants author won numerous awards and wrote under a number of pseudonyms. Pohl’s fans will tell you that his best work uses science fiction to express social criticism and explore the technological influence on an ailing society. Here are Pohl’s best quotes that perfectly capture his vision and wisdom.

Frederik Pohl

“You can’t trust reason. We threw it out of the ad profession long ago and have never missed it.” – The Space Merchants

“Anyway, that’s what life is, just one learning experience after another, and when you’re through with all the learning experiences you graduate and what you get for a diploma is, you die.” – Gateway

“Anybody who sets out to turn the world upside down has no right to complain if he gets caught in its gears.” – The Space Merchants

“Specialization is the goal of civilization.” – Platinum Pohl

“That’s really what SF is all about, you know: the big reality that pervades the real world we live in: the reality of change. Science fiction is the very literature of change. In fact, it is the only such literature we have.”

“There are people who never pass a certain point in their emotional development. They cannot live a normal free-and-easy, give-and-take life with a sexual partner for more than a short time. Something inside them will not tolerate happiness. The better it gets, the more they have to destroy it.” – Gateway

“The only thing that went wrong was the human race itself.”

“You don’t think progress goes in a straight line, do you? Do you recognize that it is an ascending, accelerating, maybe even exponential curve? It takes hell’s own time to get started, but when it goes it goes like a bomb.” – Platinum Pohl

“Advertising reaches out to touch the fantasy part of people’s lives. And you know, most people’s fantasies are pretty sad.” – The Way The Future Was

“Maybe there is a sort of law of conservation of misery that insures an average quantum value of unhappiness for every human being, and all we can really do is spread it in one direction or another?” – Heechee Rendezvous

“Increase of population was always good news to us. More people, more sales. Decrease of IQ was always good news to us. Less brains, more sales.” – The Space Merchants

Frederik Pohl Quote

“It is not a cheap commodity, love. Some of us can have it and never face the bill, but only if someone else picks up the check.” – Heechee Rendezvous

“A good science fiction story should be able to predict not the automobile but the traffic jam.”

“And so in that moment he completes the process of growing up. And begins the process of dying. Which is much the same thing.” – Jem

“There is no greater dark than the dark between the stars.” – Heechee Rendezvous

“It was a wonder that so strange thing as a number should exist in the first place, rivalled only by the greater wonder that they should perform so obediently the work of mankind.” – Drunkard’s Walk

“I don’t think you know what it’s like to have someone head over heels in love with you. What’s the good of a man who’s upside down?” – Man Plus